[Music]
so what do you go by
a mass of roxa what do you prefer
uh i guess we can go with proxa okay
that's one of the most people in the
community broxah it is
and um thanks for coming on broxah um
and uh so any questions about how this
works or anything like that
do you want some need some orientation
oh no not really i feel like
i have a decent idea of what what's
about to happen okay what it's about
so tell us what's about to happen
explain it to us
yeah i'm curious what's about to happen
okay
well you are gonna
some shitties are about to get wrecked
well i guess you'll be directing me
through a solid and healthy conversation
about
toxicity and general mentality within
the gaming community
and in this case the pro gaming
community in particular since i'm a pro
player
okay um yeah so i think that that's a
great way to describe
um what we try to do here so let me see
if i can um add kind of a caveat
for to it so brock's i think what i'd
really love to do is
help learn about you as a person
and kind of use so what we do at
healthygamer is we we try to like look
at
individual people's experiences to give
us an
insight into like broader phenomenon
right so instead of like getting
let's say a psychological expert to talk
about incels
we actually want to talk to and in cell
about what their experience is
and i think that when when we sort of
have that one-on-one perspective
it actually gives us a lot of insight
into the community as a whole
um the other big thing that i'd love to
do today if i can in
any way shape or form is actually help
you as a person
so if there's anything that you um
you know i have a pretty varied
background so if there's any
thing that i've studied or learned or
had experience with that you think could
help you
that's really my main goal um and
and so if we learn about toxicity in the
you know pro-gaming community along the
way like that's totally cool but i'm
really here to
you know kind of have a one-on-one
conversation and try to help you if i
can
sound good yeah yeah sounds really good
so can you just tell me a little bit
about yourself roxa
yeah i am uh 23 year old
uh dane i'm from denmark okay i
have played league of legends
professionally for the last four years
okay first three years for team fanatic
in europe now i just played one year for
team liquid in north america and just
transferred over to clg
another team over in north america okay
so
for the time being right now i'm in
denmark waiting for my visa to be
approved and then i'll be heading over
to la to
participate in the the league of legends
league over there
okay wow congratulations thanks
and so um can you help me understand
like how you got to playing law like
when did you start playing league of
legends
well i guess i could go back to the
beginning of gaming and
yeah so i've been gaming almost as
far back as i can remember it started
when i was maybe
i don't know let's say five years old
playing game boy playing a lot of
pokemon
on my my game boy um i have two older
cousins who i've already
always looked up to a lot and they
started playing pokemon and game boy so
of course i had to do
do the same later they transfer to pc
games
starting with world of warcraft and they
taught me how to play world of warcraft
i got into that
later we moved on to league of legends
how old were you when you
started playing world of warcraft
must have been around eight nine years
old or so wow
okay i was pretty young i think it was
like third grade or something in school
so it was it was pretty early and how
old you said you were about five when
you started playing pokemon
yeah that's that would be my guess so
usually when i would start with
with these games i would be very young
compared to
the general player base and i wouldn't
really know what i was doing
so i would have my cousins helping me
learn the game and like in world of
warcraft for example
i i remember really clearly what
happened because they
showed me the game and i don't know how
familiar
you are with world of warcraft but the
way that the game functions yeah is that
you you create a character you go around
you
you do quests and you gain experience
right and
i didn't really understand how this game
worked so instead of picking up the
quests and doing
i guess what you're supposed to do in
the game i just found some monsters
around and i killed them
and i just walked around killing
monsters and then eventually
i couldn't really gain more experience
because they're all
good yeah they were all grey they were
too low level and i was just kind of
stuck there not knowing what to do
because i didn't know quests existed so
i deleted the character created a new
one and i repeated you know
that was my experience like i had no
clue what i was doing right
and then eventually later on one of my
cousins came in and he
he showed me the way you know and i feel
like
in general for me when it comes to
gaming that's that's
like how i got into it that's how my
experience has been and even
can i just a couple more questions about
so what was that like when you
discovered that you were kind of doing
it wrong
do you remember when they showed you the
way
i don't remember exactly what my
reaction to i guess
if anything i was just impressed and you
know i was already looking up to my
cousins right and then i was like
wow these guys are so smart they're so
good at the game i remember here with
world of warcraft
i was just making random characters and
then my older costume appeared on his
his warlock on you know his horse and
with his little imp
and his different demons and i was like
wow you know this guy he looks cool like
i want to be a warlock too
and then i created a warlock and now
looking back on world of warcraft my
oldest character is this warlock that i
created back then
because my of my cousin coming to to
show me how to do quests and all that
right
wow and and can you tell me about your
cousins
yeah so my cousins are three and six
years older than me
okay and um that obviously means they've
in general they've always been a bit
more experienced when we when they got
into games they've
had a better understanding because i was
the young one i sure
i was younger i didn't really understand
english to begin with
and yeah in general i come from a game
of family
most of my my close family a lot of my
family in general
has played different games at one point
with world of warcraft in particular
uh you know half of the family like
my mom dad sister my uncle
cousins you know wow it was like a
family thing almost like
and um that has always been really
exciting so in general games have always
been a really big part of my life
so if your parents are playing world of
warcraft they're just letting you run
around
kill boars delete characters and make
them again like they didn't
teach you what no they got into the game
later oh okay
they were the type of parents who were
because i was so
caught up into the game i was so excited
about this game right
so they started playing the game as well
it was like
play with me and learn the game
alongside me and so kind of helped me
when i was a bit confused and didn't
know what was going on
that actually sounds really rare i i
very rarely hear about parents picking
up a video game because their kid is
interested in it
it is a bit of a rare thing um
and in that sense i definitely have some
pretty cool parents with pokemon on game
boy
it's the same i mean my mom my mom
learned how to play pokemon because her
little kid had no clue how to proceed on
a bus and i sat there getting so
angry you know and i just kept kept
dying and dying and i didn't know
how to proceed and then she would come
in and show me like
oh hey mass this is how you do i just
read up on this and then
you know i could proceed and go go
further in the game
so she would see that you were
frustrated and would actually go and
read about pokemon and then help you
through it
yes that's the that's the level where
we're speaking of here
that sounds quite remarkable to me
yeah i have been i've been very lucky in
that since there's no doubt about that
yeah you know it's interesting because
you said you you've been playing league
of legends for four years and you're 23
years old
no so i've played league of legends
professionally for four years
yeah i've played league of legends i
started playing league of legends like
10 11 years ago but it's four years ago
that i i started like actually playing
it professionally
yeah so i i think that that's
interesting because when i think about a
19 year old pro league of legends player
you know you know we hear about these
like people like
um who are like you know start playing
chess for example at a really young age
and you have parents that will like
encourage them arguably even force them
to play chess will find tutors for them
there's a lot of like support
right from the family to support this
hobby which then becomes a profession
and and this is the first time i've
talked to a lot of pro gamers worked
with a lot of pro gamers
i mean most of them have a pretty common
story which is that they're
you know they had some problems actually
growing up and things were hard in some
way
and and it seems like your parents were
actually like quite supportive of your
gaming
which is not very common definitely
i that there was periods where they were
not fully supportive of it
because they thought it was it was a bit
too much and
i remember there was a period as well
when i was
i don't know let's say in fourth fifth
grade where i had
that they thought i was playing way too
much world of warcraft so eventually i
had
one day a week where i was not allowed
to play video games at all
and then the other days i could it was a
bit more free but this one day
i wasn't allowed to to touch my pc and i
could go outside and play football or
read a book or whatever it may be and
and how did you
do you remember how you felt or how you
reacted or what that conversation was
like where they said
no games for one day well i wasn't
i wasn't too happy about it at least
initially but
to be fair it's i felt like it was kind
of fair
because i had so much freedom in general
compared to
a lot of my friends and especially now
you know hearing a lot of other people's
stories i can easily see that i did have
a lot of freedom
and my parents were really supportive
and while
sometimes i thought it was a bit boring
not being able to sit as a pc
i think it was a good opportunity as
well to just do other things and have
other interests
especially because they were so nice
even letting me
like at the start of the week i could be
like uh
this week i'm not gonna play on
wednesday or then the next week i'll be
like i'm not gonna play on friday and i
could even choose myself for it and then
i could just pick whichever day and then
i could make plans with a friend to go
play football or
like interesting do whatever you know do
a lot of homework whatever it may be
right
so plan a bit around it if i if i'm kind
of filling in the gaps a little bit
brock so what i'm hearing is that
actually because your parents
were so supportive you seem to be more
okay with their restrictions
yes i think that is fair to say yeah
can you tell me about your parents
so yeah so my parents
uh well my mom is an accountant my dad
is a what's it called in english like a
train
conductor i believe those people that
control the trains check people's
tickets all that kind of stuff make sure
everything is functioning and
i don't come from i feel like i come
from a pretty
average family in the sense that we we
were not poor but we were not rich
either
so growing up i had everything i needed
i never had the feeling that
you know i was missing out on something
or if i if i wanted something then
i would usually have it but we were not
the family to go on
expensive holidays or whatever either of
my
my my parents were kind of prioritizing
time
uh with me and my sister rather than
you know just constantly working and in
that sense growing up i've always
i guess appreciate it i appreciate this
family time appreciated
spending time with the people around me
because
while them being home a little bit more
than perhaps some other parents meant
that we didn't have a big load of money
we had a lot of great moments and
opportunities to spend
spend time together
yeah it sounds like they really
prioritize prioritize
time with you yeah definitely
and supporting you and it sounds like
you have a sister
yeah i have a i have two siblings
actually um so
i grew up with my sister my little
sister was three years younger than me
and i have a little brother who is
15 years younger than me who i'm slowly
turning into a little
a little gamer he's already starting to
talk about fortnite and doing his
fortnight dances and all that good stuff
so soon enough we'll get them on the
legends hype train but for now
it's fortnite focused yeah
you know it's interesting i have a
five-year-old and three-year-old
and um i you know i tried to teach my fi
i try to teach my five-year-old how to
play games cause you know i'm a pretty
big gamer
she seemed to be relatively uninterested
and
and you know like i tried to teach her
like mario kart and stuff because like
you know i had the i had the wheel
and so i was thinking oh she's gonna
have the wheel and you know her brain is
new so it can learn how to do things
quickly
she just is not that interested as it
turns out my three-year-old
um so you know when they're now they're
pretend playing it seems like like my
three-year-old is one of us
because so so my older one pretends to
be like a queen
and a princess and has like teacups and
things like that and the younger one
is um the most recent character
she was pretending to be was a dragon
that was dual wielding a sword and a
knife
and so i was very surprised because i've
never showed her dual wielding
which i was really surprised because but
she was like yeah i have a dagger in one
hand and i have a
knife in the other and and so
the older one is queen of the you know
queen of whatever kingdom
and then the younger one says i'm queen
of the demons
and it's bizarre but you know maybe
she's one of us
um it certainly would appear so what's
up
yeah go ahead sorry uh it's it's a while
ago i showed my
my little brother league of legends for
the first time he was probably
i know four or five years old and you
know i was
i was sitting at my my dad's place my
parents are divorced now
um and i was playing league of legends
and
this little guy was sitting on my lap
and i i just wanted to enter a normal
game i don't even remember if it was
normal or against bots because
it was pretty hard playing with this
little guy sitting there and trying to
control my keyboard and all sorts but
i'm then going into the game he he
decided that we were going to play fizz
to champion fizz and then he found this
great skin
where it's basically a rabbit a rabbit
skin
and we were we were having a great game
and we were walking around killing
everyone and
you know every time we got a kill he was
like yay and cheering for me and
now it still happens sometimes you know
he's like
mass when are we gonna play the rabbit
again i want to see you on the on the
rabbit or
if he watches one of my one of you know
the games i play with my team he's like
why didn't you play the rabbit
which is pretty cool good question mass
why didn't you play the rabbit like no
it's disappointing
i know but that's the way it goes i
guess does he understand
um so i know we're supposed to be
talking about toxicity in league of
legends and whatnot
is it okay that we're like talking about
this yeah it's fine
so does he understand that you're a pro
gamer
he does he so
when i when i played for fanatic
i was pretty fortunate in the sense that
fnatic had these
you know the all teams do these player
jerseys and stuff it's fnatic there's
player jerseys and shorts in like size
for a free four year old or something
and my little brother got one of these
and he was
taking his shirt on um in well i guess
it would have been kindergarten back
then
and he was going my dad was telling me
that he was going around in kindergarten
and being like oh
look guys i have a fanatic shirt on and
hey do you know that my
my big brother is broxah you know
bragging so to the people working that
what not
yeah he is he's a very
supportive little brother too and he he
does know quite a bit about
gaming and what not by by now i think
i i guess i'm a i'm both a good and bad
example in a sense because
i'm sure that eventually my uh my dad
and his girlfriend
i'm gonna have a bit of a difficult time
getting this guy away from the pc
because he's just gonna point at me and
be like what do you mean my brother's
playing video games all day long but
yeah but but yeah he does he does
know and understand what what my job is
what's it like to have a little brother
who looks up to you so much
it's uh
i don't know i'm trying to find a word
to describe it but i guess if
anything it just it's just really
interesting and exciting and
i guess it's i feel sometimes that it
puts some pressure on me and
as well in a way to you know perform and
to live up to this
this little guy's expectations
but in a sense when it comes to that um
like my family in general has never
really put too much
value on like they don't care too much
about
i mean they care about how i perform and
how my team is doing
but usually the moments where i have
felt
that like my mom for example has been
the most proud of me was when i had like
a really good
interview where i acted really
professional or nice
rather than when i was at my absolute
peak as a player
because usually when i perform as a
player and when the team is doing really
well
they're happy because i'm happy yeah
and when we're not doing so well you
know they don't really appreciate it
because i'm kind of
sad and frustrated but usually they've
been the most proud in some of those
moments
with with things happening out of the
game
and for my for my little brother i don't
know it's probably a bit of a mix of
everything because he doesn't really see
everything with
in the same light i mean he's probably
the most excited to know that i'm a pro
gamer right
yeah i i it seems it sounds to me like
your parents don't
you know your parents value you
outside of your performance in your job
yes exactly right so it actually sounds
quite different i don't know if you've
heard the term
tiger parents no not really
so it's it's like parents who um
want their children to be really really
successful and almost like use their
children like trophies so i i grew up in
the indian community where
um three out of the five indian kids
in my school became doctors okay
and and usually the first words out of
my mom's mouth when she's talking about
someone that i haven't heard of in 10 or
15 years
is whether they're a doctor or not okay
and and so you know some cultures and
some parents will want their children to
be
my parent my mom is not a tiger parent
by any means but
um you know they really want their
children to be like successful
and like if their children go to
prestigious universities or have
prestigious jobs or make lots of money
that makes them like really really happy
and they like value their kids for being
successful
sounds like your parents really were not
like that
or aren't like that oh like i could
i could quit being a pro gamer and
i could go back to my studies and i
could i could
become whatever it may be and obviously
there's
some you know they're proud of me for
what i've accomplished and they're proud
of me for
you know being a pro gamer in in a sense
but
they wouldn't care if i was
working at a supermarket or whatever it
it may be working at mcdonald's
like as long as that's what made me
happy they would be
happy too the other thing that i wanted
to just point out is
i'm noticing a remarkable similarity
between
what your cousins did for you and what
you're doing for your brother yeah i
i guess you could you could say that in
a way
how does it do like i'm just i'm
noticing it on the surface
if you is that thought ever crossed your
mind that because it kind of seems like
you're shepherding your brother in the
way that your cousins like kind of
shepherded you
i think for me it's gonna be maybe maybe
somewhat perhaps a middle ground between
the two
partly because usually um
like i don't get to see my family that
much because i'm i'm
traveling and i'm away from most of the
year uh
like this year for example i was away
for eight months and
oftentimes when i'm home and i'm on
holiday i don't
i don't feel like playing as much i
oftentimes i want to get away from the
pc
because i sit in front of it playing
league of legends all day for so much of
the year
so i don't think my brother feels like
he plays
as many games with me as he wants to
because
he wants to play 24 7 right and i
i want to play a bit but i want to do
other things too so
i'm i'm the type of big brother who
does play games with him but who also
tries to get him to
you know go play football or get away
wow get away for good
i think he's very lucky to have you
broxah because it sounds like
i i hope i hope so yeah it sounds like
you're teaching him a lot about
balance and gaming right that you can
have fun but you should also prioritize
other things this is coming from someone
who plays games for a living
so i i hope he hears that message loud
and clear
um i hope so too and and tell me a
little bit about
um so i i guess we've got kind of two
directions i know i've been asking you
about a lot of stuff that has nothing to
do with league of legends or toxicity
so you know i'm a little bit curious
about two things so i'll let you kind of
pick unless and of course if you want to
talk about something by all means dive
into it one is we sort of left off
with you discovering league of legends
so we could kind of pick back up with
you starting to play league of legends
how you became a pro
um uh option two is i'm a little bit
curious about um
your parents divorce and just what that
was like if you feel like that's worth
talking about
um and then the third thing would be you
know if you just want to talk about
toxicity and like
kind of cut straight to the chase we can
do that because we've been kind of
you know we've been sitting in the lobby
for a while now
um but you know what
i don't know i we could go for option
one or two i guess and get to the the
toxicity stuff a bit later okay
can you just tell me uh quickly just a a
quick overview of
your understanding of why your parents
got divorced and what that was like for
you
um i don't think i want to go into
exactly why they got the most
but i can i can explain kind of what is
what it was like
so um as a as a kid
it never seemed like my parents had any
problems actually they were
they seemed really happy together our
family was really happy and yeah
certainly i was having a really nice
childhood
um but then uh kind of what seemed like
from
from one day to another we were sitting
at the dinner table and you know
they they sat there telling me and my
sister like hey
we uh we're gonna we're gonna break up
we're gonna have a divorce
and at first i was very surprised
because
i didn't really see it coming i didn't
really expect it
and it was it was pretty difficult at
times
dealing with um especially when
seemingly it came
kind of out of nowhere right
and i think in a sense
after that gaming was a bit of an escape
at least at times because i was already
gaming a lot right but
um most people this that when when
they're dealing with something if
they're stressed if they're having
negative emotions sometimes just
opening up a video game and just living
through like
that experience at least for a couple of
hours can help take focus away from all
the
the frustrating things you're dealing
with so through
some of those periods i definitely was
was using it a little bit
uh as an escape but at the same time
they were not having like a really bad
divorce or brutal divorce by any means
they actually
handle it really well and um even now my
parents can still
you know have conversations together and
whatnot so
um that that's also pretty lucky that we
avoided a lot of those problems that
some parents are having when they're
having intervals
yeah i mean part of the reason that i
asked is because i was a little bit
surprised to hear that your parents did
get divorced because
you know just like you said it's kind of
unexpected right
yeah um i think i think that's how it
was for
a lot of people back then it was a bit
unexpected and then
when something unexpected happens that
kind of catches you a bit of god then
you get a bit stressed you get a bit out
of it and during
those periods where i didn't feel that
great about it
um i don't remember if i was playing
world of warcraft or league back then
but whichever i was i was using the game
as
a bit of an escape sometimes and you
know just grinding grinding the game
and what was difficult about it for you
um
i don't know i guess most of all all the
uncertainties all the the question marks
because i was happy with our family
sure and in general i'm not the type of
person who appreciates
change if something is working you know
i don't i don't want it to change and
for me as a kid
life was great you know we were having a
great little family and i didn't want
anything to change in that family
and i i think that was the the toughest
thing to deal with and i'm sure that's
how
um a lot of a lot of kids or teenagers
or even
older people feel when their parents get
divorced right it's it's a big change
and
sometimes it can be stressful and kind
of confusing to
understand what's happening and navigate
through that well yeah because it's
really hard to understand what's
happening right it doesn't
seem to make sense you don't know what
the future is going to hold
you really like the way your family is
now you don't
all you know is that it's going to
change
it can't be good because you're pretty
happy with what you have now
yeah exactly it's hard man i hear you
um yeah so and so it sounds like you
started playing league of legends when
you were like maybe
13 12 13 something like that yeah
exactly
around around that i i got into league
and again one of my my cousins
introduced me to the game
i still remember it pretty clearly
because we were gonna have our own
little two-man
land party and play most of the night
and
back then i was really into world of
warcraft like i i
loved world of warcraft so much and i
thought we were just going to play world
of warcraft all night but then
eventually at some point in the evening
he was like
hey mass i found this new game that i
want to show you and
then you know i installed league of
legends and
we played a couple of games and i don't
think it took more than a couple of
months
and i was uh i was better than he was
all of a sudden because i had just been
playing it so much and i was so excited
and into it and the same thing happened
with both pokemon
and world of warcraft by the way like
they they were
so good at these games and it was so
hard for me to catch up but eventually i
would just be
be so hooked that i i don't think
i necessarily got better better than
them at world of warcraft but i was
definitely spending
my fair share of hours improving and
learning
about the game and and how did you
can you tell us what the journey of
becoming a pro looked like
yes so in
so with pokemon with world of warcraft
and
even the first five six years of playing
league of legends
i was just playing for fun i just
thought it was really fun i enjoyed
playing
after school with with my friends and
for league of legends in particular in
the first season
i was not great at the game i was i
think i ended
the first season in bronze uh which was
the absolute lowest dragon of players
the next season i i climbed up a bit
towards gold
and then season 3 in my first year
that's when i really started playing the
game seriously and i
i started actually meeting some of the
pro players in my games and started
proving in that sense and in my my first
year
of high school i like i just slowly
started taking it
more seriously started playing a bit
more solo because
i really enjoyed the competitive part of
it that i
i hadn't experienced that much before
sure and it fit really
it kind of resonated with me because i'm
a really competitive person
as well so i was just playing a lot of
solo games climbing the ladder
and in my my first year of high school
i got to challenge her top 200
in europe for the first time but
even then i just thought it was a cool
achievement i didn't really consider
becoming a pro player and
i think more than anything my i mean my
friends really enjoyed bragging about
knowing a challenger and when we saw the
game and they were
you know they they started bragging and
all chat about how they have to
challenge you on the enemy team doesn't
you know they were having a lot of a lot
of fun and bragging
bragging for me but i just enjoyed
the competitive side of it meeting pro
players was really exciting getting to
play against them
um get to know some of them and just
learn
how did the pro player life functions
it's interesting i'm not hearing that
you brag very much but it seems like a
lot of people about
around you brag about you
i don't know maybe i brag sometimes
maybe maybe some of my
my family friends um or girl girlfriends
consider me a person that brags about
myself i don't think i'm the worst
offender at this
um but yeah anyways
then in the so
in my in my second year of high school
um
i was invited by some danish friends to
start playing in danish lad events and
tournaments around denmark
so we were traveling from city to city
and
i don't know how many tournaments we
played maybe five or so but we basically
won all of them and
uh earned a little bit of money for that
which was which was great because
i was just in school i wasn't learning
anything at the time
and then
even then it was just you know it was
just fun like i just enjoyed it there
was a great experience and i
i didn't really want the team that
practiced a lot because
i wanted to have time for for friends
and school
and family and it kind of fits really
well with the way that
i've been growing up and what my parents
have taught me which is that
um that there should be time for games
or whatever i want to do
but the main thing is that i take care
of my homework and that
i'm actually doing my job in school
because what happens with a lot of
people and what i've seen with
a lot of the people in my classes um
wait are you in school and a pro player
no i i'm not in school anymore okay
but yeah what happens to
a lot of people is that they just get so
addicted to
games or whatever it may be and then
they stop doing homework entirely so
it's like they're doing well on the
gaming side but then they don't do
anything on the school side and
life kind of falls apart where my
parents made it really clear that i
could play games
but i have to do my homework otherwise
there's no mercy yeah
that's kind of the deal we had which
which was fair so
in high school i when i started getting
invites to
similar professional professional teams
i didn't really want to do it because i
couldn't really
see how to make life work and how i
would be happy having both
and then when i finished high school all
right before i finished high school i
had a conversation
with my mom about about my future
basically
what i wanted to do and
i couldn't really see myself continuing
my studies for that next year
i kind of needed a break and i couldn't
really see
myself in any of the possible jobs
either like i had i had pretty good
grades and
i had some different options but
you know now sitting down having that
conversation was when i really realized
wow this could be my chance to actually
make a living out of gaming to try to be
a pro player because before that i just
i just always had fun but i didn't
really consider it that way but
when i reached that point and had to
make that big decision of
going to the university or being a pro
player
i couldn't do both anymore i had to to
make a choice
because i i just wouldn't have have any
opportunity to be a competitive player
if i didn't
go for it at that point in time so then
after the the summer holiday that year
i started playing a lot more solo queue
i
spent most of my time playing solo queue
actually initially i was looking for
jobs like i looked for jobs at all the
supermarkets and
um mcdonald's wherever it may be like i
think i
searched jobs in like 50 different
places and i didn't get anything
and then i was like okay i'm not getting
any jobs anyways so you know what i'm
just going to go all in on league of
legends and hope for the best
if you got a job at mcdonald's you may
not be a pro today
yeah things would have been different
right because maybe my priorities would
have changed a bit maybe i wouldn't have
enough time to practice
yeah i don't know but so then i just
went all in
and i think that was in it's in
september maybe and
at the start of january not january at
the start of november sorry
i think it was november mid-november
maybe i got in talks with
fnatic it was by far the biggest
european esports organization at the
time
because i knew i knew that coach who
used to be a professional
player too and who i had a good
relationship with and
he was like you know what i think you're
a good player i want you on the academy
team
so i i started playing for the academy
team in
around that time end of november start
of december and
then february i was thrown right onto
the main team
and now i've been a pro player ever
since
what's it like being a pro league of
legends player
it's it's really exciting
but i i would say it's the type of job
that does
ups and downs to i think it's it's a
really awesome job but i'm really
happy about all the things i've
experienced these past four years
but there's also some downsides to it
but because it's also a really stressful
job and with my personality and the way
that
i function as a person like wanting to
balance life wanting
because as i told you like when growing
up family time
was so important and having that time
with close ones
with family friends with my girlfriend
while being a pro player while living on
the other side of the world
some of those things are kind of you're
in a relationship right now
i am in a relationship yes how long have
you been in that relationship
i have been in that relationship for
over four years
oh wow yeah so
basically well ever since i got into it
all i've been in the relationship
okay so
so you said their downsides and and
where does toxicity kind of come in
yeah so um
i guess if we
i think toxicity has been a pretty big
one that i've always had a
pretty difficult time understanding
um let's say this year in particular i
think this year is a pretty good example
for me
but it's not going to happen throughout
my entire career but this year
um i was on the other side of the globe
in la
i um was in a lockdown
my team wasn't doing too well things
were not going the way we had hoped for
and then you know
criticism hateful comments all that sort
started
appearing everywhere especially in my
private messages and the sorts
comments and social media all that good
stuff and
wait people would dm you hate messages
yeah
the way that it works in general is that
if you are a pro gamer and i don't think
this is only the case in league of
legends i think it's the case in general
you need to be really strong mentally
because
there's a lot of good things happening
but whenever something
bad happens or whenever things are not
going your way or your team's way
some people tend to forget that and
i like an example could be even
um my best year as a pro player so far
has been
2018 where we went all the way to the
world final
um and i was considered one of the best
junglers
in the world at the time and i think all
really in the next
uh split or maybe even right when we
dropped out of worlds
people started getting angry at us
because it's like this team reached the
world final but they didn't win
so they must suck you know they they
went zero free this is not good enough
they haven't represented
the region well and then obviously it's
a minority feeling that way
usually most of the time it's a minority
but
that minority kind of adds up and
recently i i put out a video
talking about all this toxicity and i
saw a lot of
pro players and influencers chiming in
saying that
kind of agreeing with me saying that
it's kind of frustrating that you
if you're a public figure you have to
deal with all these things
um because the reality is if you're a
public figure within the gaming
community if you're not really strong
mentally
you're just gonna break you're not gonna
be able to handle it because you can't
really hide
for me for example i have i have
accounts on all
possible social medias at this point
almost um
i have a youtube channel i have a twitch
stream i have all the social medias and
people have so many ways of getting
getting in touch with me or of writing
things that
i'm almost certainly gonna read right
and
for a lot of people um
one comment two comments ten comments
that are negative and hateful
doesn't mean too much but eventually it
kind of adds up right
and it becomes really difficult to deal
with to the point where
at times i feel like people are just
getting bullied
like it's just too obnoxious and there's
a really
big difference between productive
criticism or productive feedback and
really offensive language and death
threats and
all these type of things right death
threats
i i'm pretty lucky in the sense that i
haven't gotten
way too many but it would happen once in
a while that
i was part of losing a really important
game or my team lost a really important
game
and i kind of had to hide from my my dms
on twitter for a little while let's just
put it that way because again it's a
minority
but what is that what does that do to
you you say you have to be mentally
strong so let's say like i open up my
twitter
dms and like what's an example of a
message that you would see
um i mean i
i don't think i should mention some of
the worst ones i think
yeah sure but so you know some people
it could be anything from people stating
that i'm i'm bad or that i'm garbage
and that i should quit the game which is
you know
okay that's an opinion i can deal with
that it's not productive criticism but
it's an opinion
so people that say that i i shouldn't be
living life anymore and that
i i don't deserve to live and that you
know i've done all sorts of things to
their team and
that it's you know and they start saying
very bad things because of that
rate and i think
sometimes it can be a little extra as a
pro player
or as an influencer like you you get
more messages right because you're in
the spotlight
you have to listen to this more because
you're kind of an easy target in that
sense and
especially for the people streaming and
whatnot you know
the chat can be a bit a bit ruthless at
times
it doesn't take much for people to to go
off in there
but it happens to a lot of people within
the community i think that was the most
people even
uh for just you know regular
people playing the game yeah and and
what does that do to you broxah
like when you see that message what's
your experience
in those like walk me through the next
few moments of what
happens to you i i think it depends of
this
it depends a bit on the state of mind
that i'm in
um let's say if i'm in a period where
things are not working that well where
um
things are not going well with the team
where i feel like i'm not performing
that well maybe there's something
personal that i'm dealing with
it's really hard you know you see some
of these really really hateful things
and you start questioning yourself quite
heavily
and it takes quite a lot to
have all those question marks in your
head and still you know power
power through and be confident in
yourself what are the question marks
um again it could be stuff like
um am i am i good enough to play this
game am i letting the team down
am i a good enough person am i a good
example for this community
because some people perceive me this way
it could be stuff like if i am being
treated this way as a human being what
am i even doing here like why do i
bother
having this job if i just get depressed
from some of these things
people tell me why don't i have another
job where i'm being treated properly um
why do i put up with the abuse yeah
basically like why why do i put up with
this why do i have to accept this this
is
unfair this is ridiculous this is not
the way that things should be
and i think and and that's the main
issue that i feel like it it doesn't
really make sense that
you have to like you shouldn't have to
be really strong mentally to function
anywhere let's say with gaming is with
secular people play video games because
it's
it's fun you know it's just fun it
should be fun
but if you are met with a lot of hate
constantly then that's
not very very easy to deal with that's
really really difficult and
again for a pro player it's it's one
thing because
you are in the spotlight but even for
some of my my friends you know they they
can also get fed up with
playing a game and people start
slaughtering them with offensive
messages or
people at them after the game and tell
them really obnoxious things
social media i
that's a good question how do i deal
with it
um
i think the way
that i try to deal with it is
i consider myself a really strong person
mentally
and i've always been confident in myself
my own abilities um
and i think that alone has helped a lot
like no matter what i've had to go
through no matter what
problems has come my way i've just told
myself that
no i'm in this position for a reason and
i deserve to be here and
i'm good enough both as a player as a
person and then
sometimes when i felt necessary or
i i needed to vent out i would go to
some of my close ones
um i would go to a coach or a teammate
and be like hey
you know this this is bothering me this
is
on my mind people are telling me this
and that what do you think
i should what do you think about my
performance
how do you think i'm doing in terms of
the team how do you think i'm
i am i am as a person and
just to get some some proper feedback in
the way i guess you could say
yeah because obviously most of the
things that are are coming from like
external sources and from social media
people within the game whatever it might
be a lot of the
the really obnoxious comments are coming
um
i mean some of them are very
questionable and i can't really
understand why people behave that way
but some of them are just really
emotional and frustrated and they might
have their own problems to deal with
right and i just
try to tell myself okay you know if
someone
feels okay writing this to another
person then
you know i kind of feel sorry for the
person like there's no point getting
getting mad over this this problem
this person probably needs even more
help than me yeah
it's interesting because i mean you talk
about mental strength
and and i think the interesting thing
there is that you
so you have this voice when when so
here's what i'm
gonna try to piece together um
so you know this let's say you have a
bad
placement in a tournament or something
like that right and then you say you
kind of got to avoid
your dms for a while so like you open
your dms and you see a message that's
kind of hateful
they tend to pile up and then you start
to doubt
right you start to ask yourself like hey
are these guys actually right like
do i deserve to be here and then so
there's like the doubt about your
capability and there's a separate thing
which is like
it feels really unfair it feels like you
shouldn't have to put up with this
and so there's this sort of feeling of
like
yeah like it's like doubt in yourself
and also separate from that
this is unfair and i no one should have
to deal with this
you know why why do i have to do this
and then like as you start to those
those kind of feelings can kind of grow
maybe with the more messages that you
get and you can kind of discard some of
them right like you can
you can ignore 10 of them you can ignore
20 of them you can ignore 30 of them but
then
as you have all these different social
media channels and they start pounding
you from the left and the right
and like all over the place youtube
twitch
you're you're streaming and then some
haters show up in your channel and then
you log off and you open up twitter and
people are [ __ ] talking you
and it kind of piles up and then you end
up with these two doubts
and then something really interesting
happens because what i'm hearing you say
is that you actually
tell yourself i do deserve to be here
and that's a really really interesting
point because i think that a lot of
people
don't have that voice
right a lot of people actually the
really unlucky ones will actually have a
voice
telling them the opposite yeah
and some people will even have you know
positive messages
and then they have a voice in their head
that tells them that these people don't
really know who you
are they're just being nice you know
yeah for sure uh you're smiling as if
you
understand which is yeah
no i i'm just kind of thinking of what
you're saying especially about
being confident in myself and that's the
voice in my head and
in my first year as a pro player we had
we had a really good sports sports
psychologist was working with a lot
due to conf yeah confidence especially
i was so nervous like i didn't i didn't
feel ready to play for the main team
in my first games i was literally you
know physically shaking on stage
i was so nervous it was so hard to play
high-pressure games and
in the past with with exams and all
those things like
it would be the same thing like i just
couldn't perform i got too nervous
but then um this guy came in and
really helped me a lot working on my my
confidence and my
he called it negative self-talk in
particular trying to
really think about the way that i'm
like the voice in my head basically how
i'm thinking to myself and what that
voice is
is doing to me in those moments
and that's something i i got better at
and started
kind of taking with me
because i don't know
like part of why why i was was smiling
what was thinking about that and like
honestly
if i wasn't so confident in myself i
probably
i mean it's not really a feast to smile
but i can't probably would have broke at
some point like mentally i would just
have quit
which is part of why i think it's a big
problem because
i consider myself really really strong
mentally and that's probably
a lot of people out there were stronger
there's also a lot of people who are not
but if i felt that
my confidence in myself and my own
abilities
my confidence in myself as a human was
the main thing that
you know kept me going in this job and
in this community
then that's kind of a problem because
there's gonna be
countless of people out there who are
just going to kind of break mentally and
we're not going to be able to handle it
and
i i don't i don't really like the
thought of that
that's not the way things should be yeah
so i think there are a couple of uh
i guess i've got kind of two threads two
or three threads one is
i'm sure a lot of people are curious um
you know what that sports psychologist
told you and how you managed
to change that voice in your head i
think that's something that a lot of
people
are very very interested in um
another thing to kind of think a little
bit about is you say that you are
mentally strong i'd agree
and i i don't really consider that
arrogant or anything like that i think
that you do have a lot of confidence in
yourself
we can explore a little bit about where
that comes from and how to find it
the third thing um that i just want to
toss out is that sometimes especially
when it comes to issues of toxicity
we're still sort of talking in the
abstract and
you know so this is something that i
want to be really careful about
uh sometimes it can be very very helpful
to take an
actual case of raw data of
uh like and walk through it in more
detail
now i know that some people are
concerned about that because
in that process if you talk about
toxicity and we use an actual example
there you know people may know who
you're talking about if it's a public
figure or things like that so i want to
be really careful
we're not here to really like um you
know point fingers or anything like that
we're really here to focus on is
is kind of your experience and how to
deal with toxicity
but at the same time you know i have
found that generally speaking when
people give
when we go through raw data it can be
very very illustrative
as opposed to talking things abstractly
because i'm still not sure
broxah like anyone who's watching this i
don't know how this actually helps
anyone in a concrete way does that make
sense like we've heard a lot about it
i i completely i completely see that
right so
so and i think that's where so these are
three options i think it sort of depends
on what you feel comfortable with
or what you think would be useful
i'm not sure i think the
the mental strength one would be a good
place to start
because i think that's something that
could help
a lot of people and that's really
important sure
okay um so the mental strength when you
mean so not the sports psychologist but
where confidence comes
yeah i i guess so like honestly i'm not
i'm not even sure exactly where it comes
from but yeah i
i i'm pretty sure why i'm so interested
in this one yeah yeah so that's
remember we're here to help you right so
it's like your questions so like that's
a great question so let's talk about
this
where does your confidence come from
well the first thing that comes to my
mind is you know
all the all the work that i put into it
i guess like
all the the hard hard work all the hours
that that has gone into it
i'm a really structured person so
when i approach a task or a problem
i usually go into it in a really
structured way and really really clear
plan of what i'm gonna do and
i kind of have you know my days almost
set in stone right from the from the
beginning
because that way i feel i feel like i'm
gonna be productive i feel like i have a
really clear plan in my head
of what what the day is going to bring
and how at the end of that day
i will have learned something i will
have
proved one way or another okay
like let's say uh it could be
so i'm gonna i'm gonna just interrupt
you for a second okay
so so because i don't want you to get
too far because we're gonna i'm gonna
be a little bit more interruptive so if
it bothers you please let me know okay
so the first thing that you said is it
comes from my hard work so let's like
let's look at that kind of
scientifically
so you had worked pretty hard when you
hit the academy team
yeah you had worked pretty hard when you
got on the main team yeah
and were you confident
no okay i see where you're coming from
right so
so we're i know it sounds bizarre it's a
very
very um reasonable hypothesis
that confidence comes from hard work
turns out
not really the case
okay yeah okay oh i i i see that
yeah so so hard work plays a role for
sure but
you know it doesn't come from there so
then you said okay so you you have like
a very structured
mind okay so i think that sort of makes
a little bit more
sense to me structured mind is a really
really
difficult thing to really understand
it's a very deep
system of knowledge but here's the way
that i would walk through it
so a structured mind like your mind
tells you a b c d e and f
is gonna happen right let's you organize
your thoughts you organize your day
you lay out your day and then you
execute on your tasks
yeah and things work
out the way that you expected them to
is that the case when you have a
structured mind over a given day
yeah generally speaking obviously there
can always be things that
are unexpected things that show up but
like on a broad level i i
yeah i i have an expectation or an idea
of what
what the day is going to bring yep and
so i think that sort of makes more sense
because if we kind of think about it a
little bit
um you know literally what is confidence
confidence is the capacity to
have an expectation in your performance
yeah right so if we like define it it's
like
knowing what you're capable of and
if you have a structured mind and you
lay out six things for you to do
and then you do those six things what is
your expectation of your performance the
next day
right it sort of builds confidence
because you said i'm gonna do this
and then you actually do it yeah and so
confidence increases
right so so i think a structured mind is
a big part of it
um but i think of
i don't really think that's where
confidence comes from because what we're
talking about is like the negative voice
in your head
right and if we really think about it
like like where is that
voice let me ask you this when you
tell yourself that you are a good person
and that you do deserve to be there
whose voice is that
whose voice do you hear in those words
interesting question
i feel like it's it's hard to say yep i
was thinking it could be
i'm about to say all the
many of you know the close ones that
i really care for that i feel like i'm
kind of fighting for in a way that are
putting a lot of trust in me then
that's really respect me for what i'm
doing
mm-hmm but i'm not sure if that's
if that's really it so even from your
answer which you're sort of confused
there's actually a very big answer
so you've actually given us a fantastic
answer because you said it's an
interesting question
so the first thing to understand is that
because it's a hard and interesting
question the answer is not
it's my voice do you see that
yeah no i i yeah i don't think it's
like i can't just sit here and say it's
my voice because right so so the fact
the fact that you can't say that is
incredibly significant
because what what you what we must
conclude from that or what
i mean we don't have to conclude but
what i'd hypothesize what i'd pull away
from that
is that confidence actually i know this
sounds [ __ ] weird doesn't come from
you
just think about it because if it came
from you you'd say it's my voice
that's me talking to myself
but you're like i don't know whose voice
it is
so could it be your voice sort of maybe
you don't know
what you sound like well right obviously
to an extent it's always it's always
your own voice talking right
but where does like where does that
confidence really come from and
like does it actually come from my voice
or
is it kind of inspired from something
else beautifully
yeah so broxah i think that that this is
where we got to trust your instincts
because you're right
just follow your instincts so i i think
that like even you when you kind of say
that like
it's my voice there's a piece of it
that's me but it's inspired
by something else right
that i think is like like feels in the
same vein of what my experiences have
been
in terms of exploring confidence so
here's the kind of really interesting
thing is that
you know what i would say is that
confidence is doesn't come from
you it is taught to you
what do you think about that
yeah i think that is fair to say i feel
like
i feel like during my time as a
professional league of legends player i
i literally learned how to be confident
than myself because
as i said initially
i wasn't really confident i was i was
nervous i i
i wasn't sure if i was going to perform
and i went on on stage into official
games kind of
questioning a lot of things and when i
was about to make a play in the game
i had all these voices in my head
you know kind of fighting with each
other about whether going in was a good
idea or not
like you have second thoughts in a way
right and
i don't really i don't really have to
have that anymore that's something that
changed and that i i learned and picked
up somewhere along the way
yeah so i don't think that that is
the whole of the answer i think that's
actually the second half because there's
something important there too you say
that
when i was a pro player there was a
fight
right in your own head between two
voices
yeah so confidence and now you're saying
okay now that fight has been resolved
and the confidence has won right
for the most part generally speaking
there could always be exceptions
but if we really if we really tunnel
down brock so what that means is that
the confidence was always there
it was fighting at one point but at that
point it was already formed
yeah which means that you didn't become
confident
you didn't learn how to become confident
sure confidence grew
but that voice was already there
so this is where i think it's
interesting because most people think oh
i
i became confident you know through my
trial that's when confidence wins but
it's not where it originates from
and this is where people run into
problems because when people
look at you and they say oh like broxah
did it because
he like fought through that mental
difficulty and then like that is how he
became confident
but the you're going into the game
evenly matched
right the reason that you struggle is
because you're going into the game
you've got your draft of like confidence
and then the enemy has their draft and
then you win
the problem that people run into is that
when they look at you and they try to
learn from your case
they're not going in with the same draft
that you're going in with
and then when they fail they blame
themselves because they say why can't i
do this
so we still have to go back to like
where that voice that was fighting
we'll we'll get into you know how you
learn to be confident because obviously
you
grew a lot negative self-talk and stuff
like that maybe that's more the sports
psychology side we can talk about that
journey
but i want to even dig further back so
like you know when you think about
when you were five years old and playing
game boy
did you feel confident in yourself
i think i think at one point i i felt
very
very confident that my ability is
playing pokemon in that game for yes i
thought
i was very very good at that game okay
what about when you were playing wow
at one point it was the same thing i
think
usually with games
it is this kind of started the same way
where
it's always a bit up and down right
because um
like let's say in league of legends for
example you can be
you can be really confident being in
gold elo or diamond if you're playing
against lower to your players but
there's always a
step up and that's where you know you
kind of start over with the entire
confidence thing again because someone
smashes you in the game and you you kind
of have to repeat the cycle rate
and i think with most games it kind of
started
with me just going in a bit blind and
not feeling that confident because i
didn't really know what i was doing what
i was doing i was just learning having a
lot of question marks and then
eventually as i put more and more hours
into it as i put more
hours into doing research and
kind of having a better understanding of
the game
and became better at it
that's when i started becoming a bit
more confident in myself
yeah so i think that makes a lot of
sense to me and i think there's one
really really important piece there
which is oftentimes overlooked
which is you said you go into it blind
that's where the money is so let me give
you two scenarios right like
let's say one thing someone says oh look
you have to
you know fight for your life in the next
24 hours
and then i go into it and then someone
says oh look you have to prepare for
something
over the next 24 hours and then you're
gonna do something
if i succeed in the blind one versus i
succeed in the prepared one
which one leads to more confidence
obviously the prepared one why
because you have time to gather your
thoughts and create a
again this is where the structure comes
in play right because
like i would take the opportunity to you
know preparing
create a structured plan of how i would
approach the problem and
go about it that way and then once once
it starts
i have a good idea in my head of what
what's about to happen what
what i'm about to do like let's say with
school for example
with exams i would always be really
confident about the
the writing exams those that you you
just sit for yourself you get a piece of
paper and you can just look at all your
notes and
you know just write something but all
the oral exams where
i walk in i have no idea what subject
i'm gonna
i'm gonna have in the exam like i go in
a bit blind in the sense not knowing
what
what i'm gonna gonna discuss i would get
so nervous because
oh oh okay okay i
okay so but let me ask you this let's
say you go into an
oral exam and you ace it how do you feel
about yourself afterward
i it there's a limit to how many times
it has happened but when it happened i
felt very
relieved and very very proud because
i was put in a place where i was really
out of my comfort zone and i still
you know came out with a really good
result i i made it work
so if we think about how confidence is
built i completely agree with you that
the oral exam you're less confident when
you're going when you go in
yeah but i would say that in terms of
growing your confidence
the oral exam actually grows it more
than the written exam yeah
at least for me because i always viewed
the oral exams as
the big challenge to overcome what i was
afraid right
right so so i think this is huge because
i
i think when you say i went into it
blind the less prepared you are
the more confident you have the
possibility of ending up
yeah so so when i look at people who are
highly highly avoidant and lack
confidence
what they try to do is prepare
so that they never have to be tested
right they prepare and prepare and
prepare so they never truly get tested
they like set up all of these things in
their favor so that success is
guaranteed
like i'm not going to if if i say broxah
i want to build my confidence as a legal
i want to
build i want to be a good league of
legends player so what i'm going to do
i'm going to ask you
and i'm going to ask all the other
league of legends pros that i've had on
stream
we're going to queue up together and i'm
going to stack the deck so that i win
so they're going to do nothing for my
confidence it is my insecurity
that causes me to reach out to people
like you and says will you join my team
will you help me stack the deck
will you help me prepare for victory
here and the victory is completely empty
yeah right because i got i got carried
yeah and you you want to be the one
carrying
right but no but no i don't because
caring's [ __ ] scary
right so when you take a written exam
you can get carried by your notes
and the oral exam is so much scarier
because you're like i have none of these
where's my [ __ ] who's carrying me no
one's carrying you bro
and it's terrifying
yeah right so actually so this is where
we're talking about building confidence
going in blind like when you really
test yourself because then you know it's
not
i'm not getting carried by pro it's not
my notes it's not all of this
it's just me i did this
right like like that's where confidence
comes from i can do this
i don't need the notes i don't need to
queue up with brock's as my jungler to
play
a game of legal like to win a game of
league of legends
i can do it and in your case just to
kind of
toss another hypothesis you know i think
that confidence is taught
right there's a lot of psychological
research about this i can go into more
detail but
i think that like it would when you kind
of think about
even the way that your parents let you
pick the day
right like what your parents were so
that you they let you pick your day that
you're not allowed to play
so even like when you were in fourth
grade your parents were saying
broxah a mass i trust you
i have faith in you that you can pick
the day
and i was surprised because when when
you know when most parents like
when most parents think their kids are
playing too many video games they don't
say there's one day that you can't play
they say there's one day that you can
play
yeah for sure right and so
it's kind of interesting because i think
that you also mentioned like having
support so i think that
it's hard but this is a rough answer
but the short answer is that i think to
confidence is taught to people just
because that's how our brains learn like
we learn very little from ourselves we
learn a lot from you know
other people and i think part of the
reason that you're mentally strong
is sure you've worked hard sure you have
a structured mind but i think frankly
like you got some good rng when it comes
to your family
you know yeah i i can confirm that
right and and so i think it's important
to acknowledge and not to say that you
don't deserve it or anything like that
but i think that
one of the things that really bothers me
is that when people look at you and
they're like look at this
23 year old chad league of legends
player who's got a girlfriend and gets
laid from time to time
what i want people to understand is that
you were dealt a particular hand in life
which has nothing i'm not saying you
didn't
work hard or anything like that but to
hold in your mind two things one is that
you had parents who taught you that you
have value
right they were like mass i want you to
be happy
like if you lose a game of league of
legends you we
you still have value as a person
you're not just a summary of your
results
you're more than that and that's where
confidence comes from right like it's an
intrinsic sense
of value and the more that you value
yourself the more you can face
uncertainty because i think you've had
little
little um run-ins with uncertainty a lot
so i think your parents divorce is a
good example of like
you were facing uncertainty right you
were going in blind it was like an oral
exam
you didn't know what was gonna happen
and when you get through that when you
cross that
you know lake of fire and you wind up on
the other side
you're like okay i can handle this now
and you've had your trials like when you
you know certainly when you started to
become a pro it sounds like
you you know you had that voice and then
you had to fight
so it's not like it was easy for you no
definitely and
i think in my time as a professional
player one of the
biggest things that i had to learn to
deal with both as a player but
especially also as a personal level was
to navigate through all that uncertainty
and dealing with it even
let's say the first time i i went to
went to berlin to
play with the team i had no idea what
was going to happen i had never been in
this situation before i had never met
any of these people
and often times when when traveling i
have no idea
when i'm coming home sometimes i don't
even know when i'll be leaving until
a couple of days before i'm leaving and
when playing tournaments it's kind of
the same like
the entire future in the tournament
depends sometimes on one single game
that you have to play and you have to
set yourself
up for up for that game and you need to
be ready to perform and in that sense
i think that is one of the two things
that i've
really had to spend the most time kind
of dealing with and learning along the
way
move a bit out of the structure and my
comfort zone and
feel a bit more comfortable with all the
uncertainties and navigating
through them and still getting getting
the most out of myself
yeah so that's a great way to put it i
think
moving outside of your comfort zone and
becoming comfortable with
the uncertainty right so like this is
this is tricky because this is what a
lot of people who are not confident do
they try to remove the uncertainty
yeah and if you remove the uncertainty
you may succeed you may work hard but
you won't become more confident
yeah for sure and that's kind of uh
i guess a mental not necessarily mental
cycle but like a mental state of mind
somewhere with
where i've been to at times where things
have been
really difficult with the job and at
times i would be
questioning myself and questioning
whether i would be able to navigate
through it and i've
i've been thinking to myself like do i
do i actually want to do this am i ready
for this do i want to
continue this way but that's where that
confidence comes in and tells me that
as long as i just you know
as long as i'm just me and as long as i
i i do my best it's gonna work out one
way or another and it's gonna be fine at
the end of the day and so let me
let me ask you a concrete question there
you say am i ready for this
and what's the answer you tell yourself
it's not always yes it's it's not always
a simple yes
sometimes it's just a maybe or
i think so but it's just that's where
confidence comes from
is doing something when you're not ready
for it
yeah right it's i think that's
yeah that's a good answer to it it's
beautiful because i i think sometimes
you know you'll you'll give an
answer that sounds vague on the surface
like it's not always a yes
but that is a great answer it says a lot
yeah because that's the important thing
it's not always yes
and and so i think brock's a really what
you should commend yourself for or give
yourself a pat on the back i think you
were dealt a good hand i thought you'd
think you were given a nice
starting stat for confidence
right it started off pretty high and
and at the same time i think you really
have pushed yourself
into uncomfortable situations
and you've done things that you haven't
been ready for
and that i think is what makes you
strong mentally
right is that you're willing to face the
uncertain and and
if you guys i kind of cut you off but i
think you were on a kind of a good chain
of thought if you guys listen to
brock's thought process it's sort of
like i may not win
but it's gonna be okay in the end like
that's a statement of confidence
because some people are like if i don't
win it's over
i i've been there before too many times
and like honestly
often times when i go into a game um
whether it's solo queer professional
game
that's that's oftentimes the default
process that can appear right
but that's where you need to this is one
of
the things that has been difficult for
me as well as like going into a game and
really setting me up
like just thinking to myself that if i
don't carry this game if i don't look
like a god and if we don't win this
everything is going to be doomed you
know like everything is going to be over
but i've kind of learned along the way
to really
take everything one step at a time and
i've never been the type of player to
inside tournament and go out in
interviews and say that
we're gonna smash everyone and we're
gonna win no matter what because that's
not really how i wanna
that's not how i set myself up for
success
um obviously that's that's always the
goal and that's always what i'm working
towards but
um if we if we're in a tournament then
the first thing i'm gonna tell myself is
that
all right we need to reach playoffs or
we need to get to the group stage
and i'm trying to figure out what i can
do in order to help
myself and my team get to that level and
then once we are
playing a qualifier and i'm like okay
but this is the team we're going up
against this is the situation this is
what needs to be done in order for us to
reach the semi-final
and just always really taking it one
step at a time
because that way if something goes wrong
inside the game which is very common
like sometimes you
you insert a game with a plan and two
minutes in
everything collapses and you know things
fall apart and you need to
you need to be really good at um
reacting
on the fly and figuring out how you're
going to win the game with a different
plan
and especially as a jungler and league
of legends that's so important like if
something falls apart you
you have to do whatever you can to bring
your team back on track
and like i i found that if i go into the
game thinking i have to win no matter
what if something goes wrong
like i i just i just black out i get so
frustrated you know because
the first thing that comes to my mind is
like oh no it's lost we're not gonna win
but if i just think to myself that
like if i just try to come in prepared
no matter what happens and take it one
step at a time
then anything can come my way or
that's how i feel right like no matter
what comes my way i'm gonna be
ready to adapt and i'm gonna figure
things out on the fly and i'm gonna
get us in the position to win win this
game or the very least do my very best
to make us win this game
and i i found that at least for me
that's
a really healthy way of thinking because
it does
put some pressure on me in a way but by
no means to the same extent of just
having to win no matter what
well said i i think that you've you've
stumbled upon
something which is a little bit
different but i think it's not having
expectations
and devoting yourself to your action as
opposed to the result
and yeah and this is something that i i
i mentioned to
you know people in in esports before
which is like
um you know if you're let's say you're
the mid laner
and you're going 2-0 you go 2-0 and
you're lane
yeah let's say you're the mid-laner and
you go 0-2
which one is more likely to make you
tilt
going too so i know you say that
you're a pro league of legends player so
you you have more experience than i do
bizarrely in my experience
what often times happens is when you go
to an o you say i got this [ __ ]
i've crushed this noob and then
and then if you die once or you die
twice then suddenly you're two and two
and then if you're o and two and then
you get two kills at the end of the day
if you end up as two and two
the person who is two and o is more
likely to tilt
because they create an expectation of a
victory but you're the actual league of
legends pro so if you disagree we're
going to defer to your answer
no i i had a feeling you were going to
say that
and i i kind of see where you're coming
from because
i i think it mostly depends on the
expectations you set
for yourself and that's it the way that
the mind functions because some people
are gonna have an easy time tilting if
they have a lead
because they they feel pressure they
feel like now
whoa i have a lead i have to carry and
then because that
because of that they start it's
questioning themselves and they do crazy
things and they throw that lead
but i think what often happens is that
when when someone has a
bad game from my personal experience
that's where
the mental path can really shine because
being in a really tough position
and just staying strong just accepting
that you've made a mistake and dealing
dealing with the situation you are in
and making it work is really difficult
and what a lot of people tend to do
myself included sometimes start rather
than
admitting that you made certain mistakes
and that you're the reason you're in
that position you start
blaming other people and you the focus
kind of
like the voice inside your head starts
focusing on random things that don't
help you win the game at all
and often that's where that's where the
the attitude problems and the mentality
problems come in because people are
having a rough time and then rather than
taking
full responsibility for it and dealing
with the situation they start
blaming other people and they're like
you know i died in my lane
the jungle was here and killed me it's
your fault why are you not here
yeah that's something i understand very
well so i play more dota than league and
i'm a jungler and dota
and and often times my my team blames me
for junglic
but i try not to let that affect my
attitude and i continue jungling every
game
that is the life of a jungler especially
when you're at jungle in these type of
games you you have to deal with a lot
and you have to learn to accept that
um sometimes i think of it as being a
being a babysitter in a way you know
there's all these children
in the lanes and if anything small goes
wrong you know they start
they start screaming and crying and then
you have to figure out like
how to navigate through that and how to
deal with that i'm laughing roxy because
i was trolling you a little bit
there's uh there's no role of jungler
and donut
it's it's like an offline though there's
something similar
there's something similar but generally
speaking when you actually go jungler
it's a terrible idea because it's like a
bad strategy
and oh really i thought i thought it was
actually like
a viable strategy
no okay so junglers are just
like you know there is offline like a
lot of people will go into the jungle
but there isn't a dedicated role and
generally speaking it's incredibly range
of
rage inducing when when there's a
jungler on your team
but so you know just speaking of of you
know expectations and letting down
teammates i understand we were supposed
to
um talk about toxicity and we really
haven't
done that i mean we've been at it for
now
you know a little over an hour and a
half do you or right around an hour and
a half do you want to talk about
toxicity or
do you feel like this has been
productive or
i mean is there something i can help
help you with in terms of toxicity or
anything you want to say
i'm not sure i i feel like i feel like
this has been this has been productive i
mean the entire conversation
um i mean i think i saw the start that i
felt like i had an idea of what was
coming
and you said that maybe it wasn't the
case and i definitely didn't expect to
sit and talk about all these things for
for this long um when it comes to the
toxicity there was one thing that that
came to my mind
it was one of the things you said about
how
my parents were when i grew up and how
they
put a lot of faith in me and i think
when it comes to toxicity or bad
attitudes or treating people a certain
way
when i grew up i was taught to be
responsible i guess and i think being
responsible for your actions being
responsible for the way that you treat
other people is
incredibly important and
again you know i'm not the best example
of all time in that regard but i can
consider myself pretty pretty
responsible and
um when it comes to to treating other
people a certain way
i'm also not perfect but i always try my
best to treat
treats i mean it sounds a bit dumb
saying it like this maybe but three
dollars the way that i want to be
treated and treat them like you know
good humans human beings rather than
going
going off when something goes wrong and
when it comes to people
you know flaming others and getting
really mad in video games
i kind of understand like i'm a really
competitive person too
i can also get gets really mad when
something goes wrong in my game and when
i feel like someone is ruining my game
but there's still
a difference between getting really mad
and actually typing really obnoxious and
hateful messages
to a person and i feel like when it
comes to
the hate that influencers
um are dealing with pro players dealing
with it's it's kind of the same that
like there's no i've never been able to
understand
um why people send hateful messages to
others
like when when whenever when i was a kid
and we were watching the danish national
team
play football like you know we would be
yelling at the tv and
that stuff and we would be like oh this
player is so bad why why did he let the
team down but
we would never consider you know
reaching out to them about it it's kind
of crazy
you couldn't right but now you can
so yeah and i think sometimes when
people
get caught up in those emotions and when
something goes goes off they kind of
forget about that entire
responsibility that they're carrying
well hold on a second brock so i'm gonna
push back a little bit
so i agree with your general so like
like your general point but when you say
you know i know that it's you seem like
a super stand-up guy you seem super
responsible
but at the same time i want to point
something out because
one of the things i'm hearing from you
and one of the things i've been curious
about
is like i love to talk to the toxic
[ __ ] on stream
i've said this like over and over and
over again where i want to find the most
we've like tried this with like incels
and and like misogyny
right so like like dudes who hate women
and
i don't know if it's just because of
like our audience or
people are more like mild when they come
on stream and they really are not like
as fiery or offensive as they are i mean
we don't want them to violate tos but
like
you know we've had a couple of people
who sort of identify as incels and my
take after talking to them
is that they tend to be like pretty
decent people
and and that's just been my my own
experience with most people who come on
stream i think like even when they're
hated by the internet
or um you know have been toxic towards
other people like i
i we just see the nice side of people
so i'm kind of curious about that but
when you say like you know when you used
to watch football and you yell at the tv
like that's the same thing right
it's just now we have twitter so you can
actually like the dude
on on the tv can hear you
for sure and i feel like that's that's
that's kind of the problem and that's a
big change in
society because i know um if you go
generations back
again denmark football or soccer is the
biggest sport and
i've seen people so many times you know
yelling and getting mad over football
players or something going wrong with a
team but you would never have that
luxury of actually being able to reach
out to them and for them to
hear what you were what you were saying
yeah and
now that is the case and that creates
some
sometimes really uncomfortable
situations and
absolutely all parties that that's
that's kind of the problem so what do we
do about it broxah
i'm not sure because it's it is a it's
it's a tricky one one to deal with and
it's a bit
saying that that everyone has to be
responsible and everyone has to to
you know push themselves to be better to
make a change that
that might help to in some cases and to
a certain extent but is it is it gonna
make it
an actual difference i'm not sure the
way
the way that i've always looked at it
especially now that i've grown my my
brand
to a certain extent is that
what i can do is to try to be
a professional and the way that i that
there's a lot of people out there who
look up to me
for whichever reasons whether it's as a
person or as a player
and when i say something or when i do
something
many of those people kind of idolize us
in a way they want to
act the same way they want to play the
same way and if i come across
in a poor manner and a pathway
especially if i do it consistently
all those people are going to start
doing the same things they're gonna
start
behaving that way whenever they play
video games they're gonna behave that
way whenever they go
on social media and
therefore even though i'm by no means
perfect at it
i i always try to go into
um streams or
videos whatever it might be with without
that mindset that
um i i want to be a good person
i want to be a responsible person and i
want to make sure that
i am not part of pushing
this particular thing that's actually
bothering me and that's bothering us out
of other people
because i think it's a problem so i'm
gonna
i'm gonna speak up i'm gonna state that
it's a problem and i'm gonna try to
be part of setting an example of you
know how you should treat other people
how you should behave
on the internet
okay i think it's beautiful that you
want to do that
and also i'm curious
what about the people who don't do that
yeah and that's uh that can be a bit of
a problem right because there's a lot
there's a lot of different type of
people out there
and this goes for
you know there's a lot of different
famous people out there and all in all
aspects whether it's video game sports
movies whatever it may be and
the way that i see it is that anyone who
has a following
has a big responsibility for the reason
that
reasons that i i just mentioned i think
it's so important
in the in this community the pro-gaming
community the league of legends
community whatever
whatever gaming community is that all
those people with a big voice with a big
following
they don't necessarily have to sugarcoat
everything or be positive all the time
or whatever it may be but it's so
important that you
um you come across in the right way
because you have
like some of these people have thousands
and thousands of of
our fans so brock's i'm gonna
push back a little bit once again so i'm
all for your positivity
you know we're we try to be positive
here but just to
because i i genuinely want to work on
this so i want to challenge your ideas a
little bit is that okay
sure so the first thing is that in my
experience sometimes the people who
we perceive as toxic believe that
they're behaving
in the same way that you're describing
they believe that they're behaving in a
responsible way right
they just think that like you know being
honest or not letting people get away
with their [ __ ] or things like that
so i think that's something we have to
acknowledge
i don't think that there are people
walking around thinking you know they
wake up in the morning and they look in
the mirror
like boy am i a toxic [ __ ] let me go
make some dude's life
miserable i think most people think that
they're behaving actually exactly the
same way that
you say you aren't i actually don't know
anything about you know toxicity in
league so
maybe you're actually a toxic [ __ ]
and i just am not aware of it
right um so that's one thing and the
second thing that i kind of toss out is
that
so i get what you're saying i think each
person who has a platform has a
responsibility to try to be a model
for behavior right that's what you're
saying
yeah i think that's that's one of the
things i thought about that
that's important yeah so i agree with
you i think the challenge is
a couple of things one is that some
people who may be perceived by others as
toxic
do believe that they are being a model
yeah right so that's a challenge that we
have to somehow overcome
and so this is where like sometimes i
wonder a little bit about like actually
conflict resolution directly
so this is where where you know you're
saying that everyone should hold
themselves to a higher standard what i'm
curious about is
is there a healthy way if there's
toxicity between two people
is there a healthy way to actually
resolve that that toxicity
instead of i'm gonna be a responsible
dude over here and you're gonna be a
responsible dude over there
and like
you know because i think we have to
engage people this is my hypothesis now
so i'm not really challenging what
you're saying
it's it's actually if i really think
about what i'm asking for is
your approval or your criticism
based on what i'm thinking to help me
think through this
because when i think about conflict
resolution in real life it's not like
when i have an argument with my wife i
don't just hold myself to a model of
high behavior and he
she holds herself to an a model of high
behavior that's why we [ __ ] argue in
the first place is because
i think i'm holding myself to a good
standard she thinks she's holding
herself to a good standard we just
disagree
right so so what i'm kind of curious
about is like now that
you can you know in the past we used to
yell at footballers on the tv
now we can dm them and and so
i'm just i just don't i think relying on
people to be models of good behavior
basically this is what i'm saying
doesn't seem to be working
no it's uh it it doesn't
it works to a certain extent but not not
to
to the maximum and and so just curious
if if you think there's some
i know conflict resolution may not be i
don't know if people know what that
means practically but like
that i basically believe that we need to
engage
people in like a more active way if we
want to do something about toxicity
that's my hypothesis
yeah but how exactly would you do that i
don't know
so so i i will say this
um there's a particular
esport that that i actually run a group
for pro players that um and we kind of
work through toxicity issues
on a weekly basis and we kind of show up
and we talk and i think it's been really
interesting to see how things have
changed because
being able directly like like fighting
over twitter
it's really easy to get mad at someone
but like when you get people in a room
together it's like
harder to call each other [ __ ] and
sometimes they do call each other
[ __ ]
and and even if they do call each other
[ __ ] then we kind of like work
through it
yeah and i think a lot of a lot of
people who
who don't don't behave that well on the
internet a lot of them aren't
[ __ ] a lot of them are good people
but there's certain reasons or
that they might have a bad day there
might be something recently that has
happened that's making them frustrated
and they just went out on the internet
or
something that happened when they were
growing up there's a lot of reasons
as to why people behave a certain way
right and i totally get where you're
coming from that
someone can behave one way on the
internet and then when you meet them in
person it's like
meeting a completely different person
and that can be the case both you know
it can be this way where it's a positive
experience but it can also go the other
way
absolutely yeah so i mean after
listening to you you know here uh i
don't know if
what is more exciting to me but i have
two or three random ideas one is that
i think it would be cool if i don't know
if this is like actually okay with
tos for twitch but i think it would be a
lot of fun so my
younger daughter the three-year-old
actually likes dota
and and she likes um she likes playing
once again the monstrous creatures so
she's not interested
in in you know the the female wizards
and things like that she likes to play
this hero called tide hunter who's like
a sea monster
so she said she wants to play the sea
monster and and so she likes to play
this year i think it'd be like i think
it's like really cool i'd love to
do like a stream with like you and your
brother and and me and my
daughter and have like a kids and anyway
i don't know if that's okay because it
has children on twitch so maybe that's
like against tos but
i think it would be cool um because i i
do really enjoy
so i my mind is kind of going there uh
the second thing is i don't know if it
would
you know my wife would be okay with it
or even i would be okay with it with
having my kid on stream but
um that may not be you know because as
we're talking about the internet is a
toxic place
uh the other thing that i'm wondering
about is whether we need like some kind
of couples counseling
for people on the internet um and
and just you know because i i think like
people
i don't know that's just thoughts but
yeah you think i'm not i'm not sure like
i think as you're saying finding
different ways to
engage people so i'm just chad is
telling me that
no no no nobody below 13 so that's
abandonable
makes sense okay so that's probably the
idea of the window
yeah apparently so as you're saying like
i also think it's important to try to
well come up with ways to engage people
because
um in inside these games
on social media you can always you can
always tighten up the rules and you can
make really strict rules but
it's not going to help i mean only to a
certain extent right i think it goes a
bit back to what you were saying earlier
but
rather than dealing with with the
problem in a good way you're just kind
of like you're not really dealing with
it you're just shutting it down a little
bit but the problem is still going to
exist and it's just going to come back
later yeah yeah i think finding that way
to
engage people and and make this changes
would be a big step but it's it's a
tricky one that no one has
quite figured out yet yeah but that's
what we're here for
roxanna oh right so sure so we're we're
stepping into uncertainty now
and we don't know if we can figure it
out but i i'd love it if you just
you know think on it sleep on it and if
you have any thoughts about what we can
do please let me know
um or what we can do if there's any way
i can help you with any answers that you
come
up with please let me know um
but yeah so last sort of thing that we
tend to do
any questions by the way
no not really um so the last thing is
some people
want to learn how to meditate i don't
know if you do meditate or if you're
interested in learning but i'm happy to
teach you if you
are curious about it i've done a bit of
mindfulness before if that counts
sure it's mindfulness but it's not
meditation
yeah yeah i think it certainly counts in
the same bucket
yeah to a certain extent it counts but
i've never done
i guess you could say actual meditation
so i'm down for the experience
okay do you want to do something a
little bit more
okay so if we're gonna do something a
little bit away from mindfulness
um i'm gonna teach you maybe a more
intensive meditation
technique that i think also relates to
confidence
okay okay yeah so i'm gonna teach you
something called um it's been a while
since we've taught this on stream but
you seem to be a pretty resilient guy so
we'll we'll kind of go there and and for
people
because we talked a lot about confidence
as opposed to toxicity
so a lot of people you know if we think
about confidence confidence is this
intrinsic
can i just think for a second of course
okay so i'm going to try to summarize
and then i'll teach you a meditation
technique okay
okay so
a lot of people ask us how do i
become confident right like how do i
like gain confidence how do i build
confidence so i think
as we learned about from talking to you
broxah the first thing to understand
is that people when when they say how do
i become
confident they're missing something
because confidence is not something that
you intrinsically do
it's not something you can build all by
yourself
that's the first misnomer so we think
about where your confidence comes from
it's actually
taught so originally for young children
and even like you know older children or
teenagers
confidence is something that is taught
to you and what i mean by that is that
your parents or other people that are
close to you in life will like speak to
you in a certain way
and that thing becomes the voice in your
head
and then what happens is you know in in
moments where you have crisis
of confidence what happens is you have a
war in your head
and there are two voices right one is
saying you can do it
and the other one's saying you can't do
it
and so already if if you have that
conflict the first thing to understand
is that when you're really young
the part of you that says you can do it
is not something that you can build on
your own
it's something that you're given and so
some people are kind of given the short
straw
and some people are given like a good
hand i mean
a bad hand of cards or a good hand of
cards
good rng or bad rng and so
that's the first thing okay so then the
next thing is then you have a little war
and the more that you
face things uncertainly the more that
you face things that you're not sure are
going to work out well
the more you go into things blind the
more your confidence is going to grow
and this is another tricky thing that
people fall into is that when they lack
confidence
what they try to do is adjust the
rules of the game so that they don't
have to take a chance
right so what i'm gonna do is like if
i'm not confident that i'm going to pass
the test what i'm going to do is cheat
and even though i can get the result
it's not going to build my confidence at
all
so people are willing to sacrifice
confidence to gain a victory
so we also see this sometimes in like
dudes who get friend zoned
where they're afraid like let's say i
want to ask a girl out
and if we if you ever come back on
stream we've got to talk about your
girlfriend
um but you know let's say you want to
ask a girl out and you're afraid she's
gonna say no
and so then what they end up doing is
like they'll do things like they'll get
her gifts and stuff
and what they want to do is they want
her to like like them more so that they
can remove the uncertainty of the
equation
and then when they ask her out she's
going to like me so much she's going to
see how awesome of a dude i am
i care about her so much she's going to
notice that she'll notice it eventually
i'll get her flowers for valentine's day
but i won't tell her that i'm interested
and so then they like invest a lot to
remove uncertainty from the equation
yeah right and then anyway it usually
doesn't end up going well
but at the end of the day though like
that's tricky because the things that we
do like we're not willing to face things
we're not willing to face uncertainty
so and when we do face uncertainty and
we come out on top or even if we fail
we actually end up more confident at the
end of it as long as you're willing to
face uncertainty
as long as you're willing to go into
something blind
and when you survive at the end you
mentioned to us earlier that
you know you even if you lose you know
everything's gonna be okay
and if you really think about that how
did you learn that
like that's a really important lesson
but the way you learned that
is by going into something failing and
then like
waking up the next day and being like oh
i'm still okay right
and and so this is where early on you
said kind of confidence comes from
maybe the hard work that you put in or
some people think that confidence comes
from success
but actually if we really think about it
when you talk about your thoughts of
confidence
they don't necessarily come from your
success they actually come from your
failure
what they really come from is stepping
into something not knowing whether you
can handle it or not
that's how you grow it but it sort of
starts with
you know there's a part that's given to
you and there's a part that you grow
and that's how you become confident in
short so
the next question is let's say people
have bad
rng and they're not like you and they
grew up in a situation
where they don't have intrinsic
confidence their self-talk is not
positive their self-talk is negative
which is something you've experienced
right
so how do we start if you were given a
bad hand and so what i'm going to teach
you is a meditation technique
that will neutralize your self-talk and
will start to give you
a sense of who you are as a person
that is free from what other people
think of you
okay so what that sort of means is that
if you're not confident i hope that
you'll get a sense of like
your core being if you are confident
hopefully it'll still feel good
okay so there's gonna be kind of a weird
technique
so this this technique is um is
called b's breath and also it's two
techniques
it's b's breath like the breath of a bee
and then the second technique is the
closing of the nine
gates okay i know it's weird
it's gonna be weird it's gonna be even
weirder when you do it but the goal is
that you're gonna do this technique
and it's gonna be quite enveloping
for your consciousness
and then after you do this technique for
a while what it's hopefully is going to
do
is going to knock out your thoughts
knock out your self-talk completely and
you're going to be
left with a state of self that is like
super super neutral
but the more you sit with that neutral
state the more
your negative self-talk will melt away
and the more you'll be able to go to
that neutral state
if you start to tilt if you start to
lose confidence you can go ahead and
yawn just yawn bro
it's totally fine um it's just
you know i'm lecturing so it's
completely fair oh it's not that it's
boring it's just
there's been so much to digest you know
i i understand that's why i'm not i
don't take it offensively and people
think it's offensive if you
but i yawn i lecture all the time and
people are yawning all the time and i
know it's not my fault just like i know
that in dota when i jungle and my team
loses it's not my fault it's just what
happens right
anyway okay so you ready for the
technique
yes okay so this is gonna be kind of
weird because you're gonna have to take
off your headset to do it
okay but this is gonna be complicated
i'm gonna show you first i'm gonna show
you
the closing of the nine gates okay
so i'm gonna take my hands
hold on let me think about this okay
so i'm going to take my hands this is
going to be hard so oh [ __ ] how can i
shoot
okay these are my hands right so my
pinkies are going to go here
my middle uh ring finger is going to go
here right outside my nose
and this is going to be kind of weird
these two fingers are going to go on
either sides of my eyes like this okay
okay and then my thumbs are gonna go in
my ears
like that so what i'm gonna do is sort
of block
off all of the ways that my mind goes
out into the external world
okay so the nine gates that we're
closing if we think about the way that
we relate to the outside world we do
through
do we connect to the outside world
through our sense organs
okay and the outside world doesn't
really know who we are
so what we're gonna try to do is
disconnect from the outside world and
just be inside
okay okay so if you need an easy version
all you really need to do is close your
eyes and do this
this works too it's not as powerful but
it works okay
but if you have trouble doing huh that
can be planned
yeah that's gonna be plan b and then
what we're gonna do is we're gonna buzz
like a b
okay so i'm gonna show you the technique
[Music]
you got me did that clip out
well i i heard the style yeah that's
great so you're not a buzz right so why
don't you take off your headset
and adopt the thing and i'm i'm not
going to be able to tell you because you
won't be able to hear
but how do you feel about trying this is
too [ __ ]
it's going to be interesting but yeah i
i think i think
i have an idea so how long do i have to
do it for like
we're gonna do one breath and then we're
gonna check in again okay
okay
okay so oh you can't hear me
so look oh there we go
figured it out yep good he can't hear me
and then it
inside the ear and then
we can't really hear him they can't
hear us
okay what was that like
i don't know okay so
great so we're going to give you one or
two pointers
so the first time you do it it just
feels weird
yeah it felt a bit awkward and i was
kind of the
the first stage was questioning what i
was doing right so so
what we want to do is power through that
questioning
so the first time you do it you're just
going to feel so uncomfortable that
you're not even focusing on the practice
okay so i'm going to give you two
pointers one is that
the you don't want to press on your eyes
for sure okay
yeah so if you want to you can do this
if this is easier like
something like this is fine you want
your thumbs to be
inside your ear canal okay
okay and now what i want you to do is at
your own pace
do five breaths so take a big long
breath
okay and then you're gonna feel weird
doing it
and then the second breath is gonna be
easier
the third breath you're gonna get into
it the fourth breath hopefully is
relatively peaceful
and the fifth breath you may feel a
little bit light-headed which is fine
so you can go at your own pace if you
start to feel like lightheaded
you can go ahead and take a breath in
between like you can just you know take
a few breaths in between the rounds okay
and you're gonna feel super anxious and
weird at the beginning and then the
whole point of the practice
is that as you breathe the anxiety and
the feeling weird is going to go down
and you're going to be centered like
kind of in yourself
okay and then after the last round i
want you to just keep your eyes closed
and just
sit with yourself okay okay
let's do it together okay okay
but you're gonna have to do it at your
own pace you're gonna have to do it at
your own pace because we're not gonna be
able to hear each other
okay okay chat you guys do it too
okay
um
[Music]
hmm
um
[Music]
one
how you doing
i do feel a bit hills yeah it can lead
to that
what did you what was your experience of
it
i can i can see
where what you said about coming to like
a neutral state come from
because it was just like
focusing on the breath focusing on the
on the b sound really
yeah and just not thinking about
anything else for like
a little a little moment right and then
even afterwards
um you know normally the mind wanders
and you think about a billion things but
even
right after closing my eyes i mean i was
i was thinking
at a certain point like how long am i
supposed to have my eyes closed right or
what i want to that point there's like
i wasn't really thinking about anything
just focusing on the breath
right so as you practice this and if you
don't do it on stream and you can do it
you know on your own
you'll it's gonna be way easier but
the the whole point so i guess this
isn't really a technique to build
confidence what this is is a technique
to wipe away
lack of confidence yeah
right so when you're having that
negative self-talk when your mind is
full of that negativity
it's a way to flatline it
and what i would encourage you to do if
if it fit for you great do it if it
didn't fit for you no big deal
um but i'd say if you continue to do it
you know
sit quietly for like two minutes three
minutes four minutes five minutes with
your eyes closed afterward
and then gradually as your brain
acclimatizes to the
you know different level of co2 and
oxygen
you can go up to nine breaths so nine
rounds and then really just sit
and it'll kind of like balance you out
okay yeah cool okay
well thanks a lot for coming on man yeah
i mean thanks for for having me this has
been
this has been exciting something very
very different for me and i
enjoyed it yeah man so good luck with
your you know the next season of
of when do you guys start or you guys
already started
well um so speaking of uncertainties
the season begins the 15th of january
but i'm
kind of waiting waiting around now
finding out when my visa
is it's really yeah i'm in that market
this season begins in la in nine days so
oh my god that's a bit of an uncertainty
right there to deal with
as a pro player waiting to see when when
i will be able to travel
all right well good luck with that man
yeah
thanks take care yeah you too man
wow chat talk about uncertainty okay
ray dragon let's trade dragon who's
dragon